# KingOfPortugal #

Between 1320 and 1324 there was a civil war that pitted the king against the future Alfonso IV. The latter believed that his father intended to give the throne to Afonso Sanches. In this war, the king had little popular support, as in the last years of his reign he gave great privileges to the nobles. The Infante had the support of the councils. Despite the reasons for the revolt, this war was at the bottom a conflict between large and small. After his death, in 1325, he was succeeded by his legitimate son, Afonso IV, despite opposition from his favorite, natural son Afonso Sanches.

As heir to the crown, Denis was involved early on in aspects of governance by his father, Alfonso III, who on February 16, 1279, leaves a kingdom with marked internal stability, resulting from an uncontested royal authority, in contrast to the state the kingdom of Castile, where prevailed an accentuated climate of ungovernability and permanent social conflicts.

He was entrusted, although he was of legal age (he was 17 at the time of his accession to the throne), to a governing council presided over by his mother, Beatrice, who would probably try to lead the kingdom by heading a council in which the major steward of his father, João Peres de Aboim. However, the young king quickly disillusioned her with any participation in the government. The conflict with his mother even led to the intervention of his grandfather, Afonso X, who tried to meet his grandson in Badajoz, a meeting that Denis rejected. Beatriz ended up returning to Castile.
